Add example automations to devolo Home Network (#36101)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/devolo_home_network.markdown

The devolo Gigabridge is the only device that comes with a default password. However, it seems that in factory default the password works for the device website but not for the API. If you give the device a new password via the website, it is applied to both and the integration starts working. Even using the same password again works.

## Example automations

### Restart PLC device on loss of pairing

> PLC networks are sometimes flaky. To restore a network's state it's sometimes a good idea to reboot the PLC device attached to the router, if the number of PLC devices is lower as expected. If you apply this automation, keep in mind, that devices might be expectedly on standby. In this example, the expected number of devices is 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PLC networks are sometimes flaky. To restore a network's state, it's sometimes a good idea to reboot the PLC device attached to the router if the number of PLC devices is lower than expected. If you apply this automation, keep in mind that devices might be expected on standby. In this example, the expected number of devices is 3.
```

{% raw %}

```yaml

> alias: PLC Feeder Restart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alias: "PLC feeder restart"
```

description: "Restart device connected to the router if number of PLC devices is unexpected low"
triggers:
  - trigger: numeric_state
    entity_id:
      - sensor.YOUR_DEVICE_connected_plc_devices  # Replace with your device's sensor
    for:
      hours: 0
      minutes: 10
      seconds: 0
    below: 3

> conditions: []

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

actions:

>   - device_id: DEVICE_ID  # Replace with your device's ID

Reviewer: Can we make this an entity based action instead of using device automations?

    domain: button
    entity_id: ENTITY_ID  # Replace with your restart button's entity ID
    type: press

> mode: single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

{% endraw %}

### Notify on data rate drop

Noise on the electric wire can significant disturb PLC data rates. A notification close to a drop can help identify the action that lead to the drop. The following example takes 25% as threshold.

{% raw %}

```yaml

> alias: PLC Data rate
> description: PLC Data rate dropped more than 25%

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alias: "PLC data rate"
description: "PLC data rate dropped more than 25%"
```

triggers:
  - entity_id:
      - sensor.YOUR_DEVICE_plc_downlink_phy_rate_TARGET  # Replace with your device's sensors

>       - sensor.YOUR_DEVICE_plc_uplink_phy_rate_TARGET

Reviewer: Let's use some normal examples, entities IDs with CAPS are not valid

Author: As devices are normally named devolo-{last three digits of their MAC address} I renamed those examples to e.g. `sensor.devolo_001_plc_downlink_phy_rate_devolo_002`. Does that match your expectations?

    trigger: state
conditions:
  - condition: template
    value_template: >-
      # Checks if new value is less than 75% of previous value
      {{ not(0.75 < (trigger.to_state.state|float /

>       trigger.from_state.state|float)) }}

Reviewer: Can we make this more readable

Author: Don't ask why I made it that complicated, because I don't know myself ...

actions:
  - action: notify.mobile_app_pixel_4a

>     metadata: {}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    data:
      message: >-
        PLC data rate of {{ trigger.to_state.name }} dropped to {{
        trigger.to_state.state }}
        {{trigger.to_state.attributes.unit_of_measurement}}
      title: PLC data rate dropped

> mode: single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

{% endraw %}

### Enable guest wifi on time basis

You might want to expose your guest wifi only during the day but turn it off at night.

{% raw %}

```yaml

> alias: Toggle Guest Wifi
> description: Turn Guest Wifi on and off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alias: "Toggle guest Wi-Fi"
description: "Turn guest Wi-Fi on and off"
```

triggers:
  - trigger: time
    at: "08:00:00"
  - trigger: time

>     at: "17:00:00"

Reviewer: We can combine this in a single trigger

Author: I learned something new here 👍

> conditions: []

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

actions:
  - type: toggle
    device_id: DEVICE_ID  # Replace with your device's ID
    entity_id: ENTITY_ID  # Replace with your guest WiFi switch's entity ID

>     domain: switch

Reviewer: Let's change this into an entity based action instead of a device action

> mode: single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
